hello I'm charlott stre pathma the
Israeli military says it's agreed to
help evacuate babies from gaza's Main
Hospital the alifa where conditions have
become desperate while fighting
continues outside local officials said
two premature babies had died there for
a lack of power and overnight the World
Health Organization has warned that it
has lost communication with the hospital
in Gaza City a surgeon there previously
told the BBC the hospital had run out of
water food and electricity and that the
Intensive Care Unit had been struck
meanwhile the Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu has reiterated that
the war in Gaza will continue until
heras is destroyed and all hostages are
free we start with a report from the
BBC's Nick beak in
Jerusalem the battlefield that is
Northern Gaza illuminated by the latest
bombardment from Israel overnight the
country has vowed to wipe out Hamas
thousands of Palestinian civilians have
been killed in the process some of the
big biggest fears remain for those who
sought shelter in gaza's hospitals
Israeli forces say they're clashing with
Hamas fighters who they claim are in
bases underneath the buildings the
Israelis say they're not targeting
hospitals or civilians one doctor in the
south of Gaza described what it was like
for his colleagues in the north at the
biggest Hospital in the territory the
situation hospital now are very critical
uh nothing happened like this before
there is direct uh targeting of the
hospital hospital buildings so our
colleagues there they barely communicate
with other with outside Community they
feeling that that like they are facing
death without any help and support the
Israeli military says today it will move
out more than 30 newborn babies from the
alifa hospital this was one of the wards
a few days ago doctors have said the
neonatal intensive care unit has stopped
working because of a lack of electricity
outside Israel's ground offensive in
Northern Gaza intensifies many
Palestinians have been forced to flee to
the South but others have stayed and
lots feere they're now trapped amid the
fighting IDF forces have completed the
encirc of Gaza City they are operating
in the Heart of the City they are on the
outskirts of shifa hospital they
eliminated thousands of terrorists
including senior commanders and many
murderers who were among those who led
this terrible Mass
on the cursed Saturday of October the
7th Hamas took more than 200 hostages
during their attacks on the 7th of
October once again in the city of Tel
Aviv families of the kidnapped called on
the Israeli government to do more to try
to secure their release I came here to
to shout for my kidnapped parents which
are already 35 days not here with us
kidnapp in Gaza we don't know their
situation and we need them to be
released immediately back in Gaza the
hospitals overwhelmed with dire warnings
of what could happen next Nick beak BBC
News
Jerusalem and Nick joins us now from
Jerusalem Nick evacuating babies from
alifa is not going to be an easy task is
it good morning v no it won't be I mean
trying to move some of the youngest
patients from intensive care is a very
delicate process at the best of times
but we've got to remind ourselves that
this Hospital which is the biggest in
Gaza is right on the front line of the
fighting now the ashifa hospital has
seen Fierce clashes between Hamas and
Israel and so what they're trying to do
today is extremely difficult we haven't
got a huge amount of detail about what
will take place Israel says that it
wants to help in the evacuation of the
the babies who've been in the neonatal
unit which apparently has lost lost
electricity there are reports that
already two babies have died the BBC was
sent a photograph uh late last night
which appeared to show more than 20
babies who are wrapped up and have been
placed on a hospital bed and the the
Medics who sent the photo basically said
that these these babies desperately
needed oxygen and that they've been not
able to have that in the hours before
the photo was taken and they say this
illustrated The Urgency of the situation
speaking to people in the hospital was
difficult but last night we did get a
sense that it was not quite clear how
this operation would take place so
certainly we wait and of course lots of
other people wait to see what exactly
will happen this morning with this
attempted evacuation of these of these
babies it's reported 37 babies are there
and needed to be moved to safety of
course the the head of the hospital the
head of surgery says actually the
priority should be resuming power to the
unit where they were being cared for
that would be the best thing for these
young patients Nick thank you very much
for that update Nick beak our
correspondent in Jerusalem there